README.md, before:

# crosswind

## About

Crosswind is a library that attempts to allow arbitrary source traversal from either
Python 2 to 3 or Python 3 to 2. The intention is to enable teams to write modern Python
3 even if they have to support older versions of their software still using Python 2.

Crosswind is a fork of the [lib3to2 project that can be found on Bitbucket](http://bitbucket.org/amentajo/lib3to2)
and [PyPi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/crosswind). The source history has been ported from Mercurial to Git
using [hg-fast-export](https://github.com/frej/fast-export).

## Objectives/Goals

The following are the overarching objectives of crosswind. They are subject to change as
the a game plan is established. For now, they are tentatively:

- Support Python 2.7+ and Python 3.5+
- Tooling runs only in Python 3 interpreters
- Both conversion directions are supported equally
- Support latest versions of lib2to3

## Technical Objectives/Goals

- Use pipenv or poetry for project management
- Switch testing infrastructure to pytest instead of unittest
- Integrate lib2to3 from latest CPython and/or [fissix](https://github.com/jreese/fissix)
- Get build automation running (Azure Pipelines or GitHub Actions)
- Investigate/resolve [open issues on lib3to2](https://bitbucket.org/amentajo/lib3to2/issues?status=new&status=open)

## Usage

Run "./crosswind" to convert stdin ("-"), files or directories given as
arguments.  By default, the tool outputs a unified diff-formatted patch on
standard output and a "what was changed" summary on standard error, but the
"-w" option can be given to write back converted files, creating
".bak"-named backup files.

If you are root, you can also install with "./setup.py build" and
"./setup.py install" ("make install" does this for you).

This branch of crosswind must be run with Python 3.

To install locally (used for running tests as a non-privileged user), the
scripts assume you are using python3.1.  Modify accordingly if you are not.

## Thanks/Inspiration

Thanks to Joseph Amenta for developing lib3to2 and making it open source. This effort
wouldn't be possible without it!

Commit message:

Get CI going with linting and testing
This requires a non-trivial amount of changes including removing
old files, fixing several linting errors (the CI pipeline will only
worry about actual errors for now) which includes a few suboptimal
fixes, and so on.

This also updates the README with information about using the Makefile
and how to run the current dev version of crosswind.

README.md, after:

# crosswind

## About

Crosswind is a library that attempts to allow arbitrary source traversal from either
Python 2 to 3 or Python 3 to 2. The intention is to enable teams to write modern Python
3 even if they have to support older versions of their software still using Python 2.

Crosswind is a fork of the [lib3to2 project that can be found on Bitbucket](http://bitbucket.org/amentajo/lib3to2)
and [PyPi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/crosswind). The source history has been ported from Mercurial to Git
using [hg-fast-export](https://github.com/frej/fast-export).

## Objectives/Goals

The following are the overarching objectives of crosswind. They are subject to change as
the a game plan is established. For now, they are tentatively:

- Support Python 2.7+ and Python 3.6+
- Tooling runs only in Python 3 interpreters
- Both conversion directions are supported equally
- Support latest versions of lib2to3

## Technical Objectives/Goals

- Use pipenv or poetry for project management
- Switch testing infrastructure to pytest instead of unittest
- Integrate lib2to3 from latest CPython and/or [fissix](https://github.com/jreese/fissix)
- Get build automation running (Azure Pipelines or GitHub Actions)
- Investigate/resolve [open issues on lib3to2](https://bitbucket.org/amentajo/lib3to2/issues?status=new&status=open)

## Development

Development uses the Poetry tool for managing dependencies and virtual environments. Common
development tasks have aliases that have been collected in a Makefile at the root of the
project.

To get started with crosswind development, run `make install`. This will use Poetry to create
the virtualenv and install the dependencies (both runtime and dev-time).

Then you can lint the code and run the tests with `make lint` and `make tests` or combine them
(since they're separate targets and make allows specifying many targets in a single invocation)
with `make lint tests` and so on.

Currently, running crosswind requires a manual invocation of poetry such as:

```shell
poetry run python crosswind/crosswind --help
```

This will show the help output containing the currently supported options. It should be noted that
the current state of the crosswind tool is that it only has access to the 2to3 fixers. Further efforts
are needed to allow it to combine arbitrary fixers and fixer suites.

## Thanks/Inspiration

Thanks to Joseph Amenta for developing lib3to2 and making it open source. This effort
wouldn't be possible without it!
